no more `mkey`s + reuse as much CoRIM as possible (#6)
thomas-fossati/corim-psa: draft-fdb-rats-psa-endorsements.md

normative:
  PSA-TOKEN: I-D.tschofenig-rats-psa-token
  CoRIM: I-D.ietf-rats-corim

informative:
  RATS-ARCH: RFC9334
  TEEP: I-D.ietf-teep-architecture
  PSA-CERTIFIED:
   target: https://www.psacertified.org
   title: PSA Certified
   date: 2021

entity:
  SELF: "RFCthis"

--- abstract

PSA Endorsements include reference values, endorsed values, cryptographic key
material and certification status information that a Verifier needs in order to

> appraise attestation Evidence produced by a PSA device.  This memo defines such

Reviewer: I think, we agreed that Certification Status bakes into "Verifier Added Claims" which are strictly not required to appraise attestation Evidence. Hence we should set the expectations and "bar" accordingly for certification status, right from the start.

Author: will use "may need" instead of "needs"

> appraise attestation Evidence produced by a PSA device.  This memo defines such

Author: ok

RoT. Additionally, PSA Endorsements can include information related to the
certification status of the attesting device.

> There are three basic types of PSA Endorsements:

Reviewer: As we have removed "Block List Triples" from here it is better we remove it from everywhere in the document. The last section on Block List is quite confusing!

Author: ok

* Reference Values ({{sec-ref-values}}), i.e., measurements of the PSA RoT
  firmware;
* Attestation Verification Claims ({{sec-keys}}), i.e., cryptographic keys
  that are used to verify signed Evidence produced by the PSA RoT, along
  with the identifiers that bind the keys to their device instances;
* Certification Claims ({{sec-certificates}}), i.e., metadata that describe
  the certification status associated with a PSA device;

There is a fourth PSA Endorsement type that aims at covering more advanced
Verifier use cases (e.g., the one described in {{Section 7 of TEEP}}):

* Software Relations ({{sec-swrel}}), used to model upgrade and patch
  relationships between software components.

## PSA Endorsement Profile

PSA Endorsements are carried in one or more CoMIDs inside a CoRIM.

The profile attribute in the CoRIM MUST be present and MUST be set to the URI
`http://arm.com/psa/iot/1` as shown in {{ex-psa-iot-profile}}.

~~~
{::include examples/profile.diag}
~~~
{: #ex-psa-iot-profile title="PSA IoT version 1, CoRIM profile" }

> The list of all, and only, the CoMIDs that are currently "active" (i.e., CoMIDs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The list of CoMIDs that are currently "active" (i.e. CoMIDs that contain triples that can be used for appraisal of evidence) is provided in a CoBOM tag.
```

Reference Values carry measurements and other metadata associated with the
updatable firmware in a PSA RoT.  When appraising Evidence, the Verifier
compares Reference Values against the values found in the Software Components
of the PSA token (see {{Section 3.4.1 of PSA-TOKEN}}).

When there is more than one measurement associated to a certain PSA RoT, the
measurements are spread across multiple `reference-triple-record`s and, in
certain cases, across multiple CoMIDs.  A single CoBOM MUST completely describe
the updatable PSA RoT.

The elements of the `psa-software-component` map defined in {{Section 4.4.1 of
PSA-TOKEN}} are matched against CoMID `measurement-map` entries as follows:

> PSA Evidence | PSA Endorsement

Reviewer: It would be a good and handy reference to use a third column with a short sentence what each element means

Author: this may not be as short as you imagine :-) adding a reference to the relevant PSA-TOKEN section instead

~~~
{::include examples/cert-val.diag}
~~~
{: #ex-certification-claim title="Example Certification Claim"}

## Software Upgrades and Patches
{: #sec-swrel}

In order to model software lifecycle events such as updates and patches, this
profile defines a new triple that conveys the following semantics:

* SUBJECT: a software component
* PREDICATE: (non-critically / critically) (updates / patches)
* OBJECT: another software component

The triple is reified and used as the object of another triple,
`psa-swrel-triple-record`, whose subject is the embedding environment.

~~~
{::include psa-ext/swrel.cddl}
~~~

An example of a security critical update involving versions "1.2.5" and "1.3.0"
of software component "PRoT" within the target environment associated with
Implementation ID `acme-implementation-id-000000001` is shown in
{{ex-psa-swrel-update-crit}}.

~~~
{::include examples/swrel-update-crit.diag}
~~~

> {: #ex-psa-swrel-update-crit title="Example Critical Software Upgrade" }

Reviewer: Suggest please remove 309 onwards!
